From Magnus.Hagdorn at ed.ac.uk  Wed Sep  1 10:16:29 2010
From: Magnus.Hagdorn at ed.ac.uk (Magnus Hagdorn)
Date: Wed, 01 Sep 2010 09:16:29 +0100
Subject: [Glimmer-cism-devel] Fwd: dycore proposal
In-Reply-To: <5922C744-09A5-4D50-A240-011931E45BD2@lanl.gov>
References: <689a26b23dbad64b1c5015802746b5f7@ices.utexas.edu>
	<A37EB7A8-FB00-4236-9AD4-679E0B1919DC@lanl.gov>
	<871va25l6p.fsf@59A2.org> <4C6A623E.2090300@swansea.ac.uk>
	<20100817155318.GA22201@ices.utexas.edu>
	<4C77C503.6020509@swansea.ac.uk> <87iq2wgn22.fsf@59A2.org>
	<4C77D2A8.7000900@ed.ac.uk> <4C77DEA6.5000105@ed.ac.uk>
	<4C77E0F7.2060100@bristol.ac.uk>
	<1534452E-FAEF-42A4-A231-A21269BED7FD@lanl.gov>
	<1282982358.3306.2.camel@bacon.marsupium.org>
	<87bp8nezts.fsf@59A2.org> <4C7B6E55.6000801@ed.ac.uk>
	<8739twtncm.fsf@59A2.org>
	<5922C744-09A5-4D50-A240-011931E45BD2@lanl.gov>
Message-ID: <4C7E0BDD.2030303@ed.ac.uk>

William Lipscomb wrote:
> 
> Hi all,
> 
> I agree that it's worth taking some time to define and design the API 
> infrastructure.  I wonder if it would make sense to form a development 
> subgroup to think about this in detail.  This group might include 
> representatives from the various ISICLES projects developing new dycores 
> (e.g., Jed from SISIPHUS, Dan from ISICLES, Toby from U.Texas/Ymir) as 
> well as the Glimmer-CISM steering committee (Magnus?) and the CESM 
> community (Jesse or me?).  Others (e.g., from PISM) would of course be 
> welcome.
> 
> I'll start by asking:
> (1) Does anyone have strong feelings about whether this is or isn't a 
> good idea?
> (2) Assuming it's a good idea, who would like to be part of the group?
> 
> 

Hi Bill,
I think this is a very good idea and should involve representatives from 
other projects. I'd be happy to be the Glimmer-CISM representative but 
should stress that I don't have any funding which will make it difficult 
for me to attend any meetings.

I think there is not much point refactoring the code (Glimmer-CISM) at 
this moment when we don't have an API yet.

Regards
magi

-- 
The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, registered in
Scotland, with registration number SC005336.



From lipscomb at lanl.gov  Wed Sep  1 18:27:20 2010
From: lipscomb at lanl.gov (William Lipscomb)
Date: Wed, 1 Sep 2010 10:27:20 -0600
Subject: [Glimmer-cism-devel] Fwd: dycore proposal
In-Reply-To: <4C7E0BDD.2030303@ed.ac.uk>
References: <689a26b23dbad64b1c5015802746b5f7@ices.utexas.edu>
	<A37EB7A8-FB00-4236-9AD4-679E0B1919DC@lanl.gov>
	<871va25l6p.fsf@59A2.org> <4C6A623E.2090300@swansea.ac.uk>
	<20100817155318.GA22201@ices.utexas.edu>
	<4C77C503.6020509@swansea.ac.uk> <87iq2wgn22.fsf@59A2.org>
	<4C77D2A8.7000900@ed.ac.uk> <4C77DEA6.5000105@ed.ac.uk>
	<4C77E0F7.2060100@bristol.ac.uk>
	<1534452E-FAEF-42A4-A231-A21269BED7FD@lanl.gov>
	<1282982358.3306.2.camel@bacon.marsupium.org>
	<87bp8nezts.fsf@59A2.org> <4C7B6E55.6000801@ed.ac.uk>
	<8739twtncm.fsf@59A2.org>
	<5922C744-09A5-4D50-A240-011931E45BD2@lanl.gov>
	<4C7E0BDD.2030303@ed.ac.uk>
Message-ID: <35B052E7-F303-4544-BD38-B7B0006D1A34@lanl.gov>


Hi Magnus,

Thanks for volunteering.  Since we're so widely distributed, I'm  
assuming that business would be conducted via email and the occasional  
teleconference, not face-to-face.

Regards,
Bill


On Sep 1, 2010, at 2:16 AM, Magnus Hagdorn wrote:

> William Lipscomb wrote:
>> Hi all,
>> I agree that it's worth taking some time to define and design the  
>> API infrastructure.  I wonder if it would make sense to form a  
>> development subgroup to think about this in detail.  This group  
>> might include representatives from the various ISICLES projects  
>> developing new dycores (e.g., Jed from SISIPHUS, Dan from ISICLES,  
>> Toby from U.Texas/Ymir) as well as the Glimmer-CISM steering  
>> committee (Magnus?) and the CESM community (Jesse or me?).  Others  
>> (e.g., from PISM) would of course be welcome.
>> I'll start by asking:
>> (1) Does anyone have strong feelings about whether this is or isn't  
>> a good idea?
>> (2) Assuming it's a good idea, who would like to be part of the  
>> group?
>
> Hi Bill,
> I think this is a very good idea and should involve representatives  
> from other projects. I'd be happy to be the Glimmer-CISM  
> representative but should stress that I don't have any funding which  
> will make it difficult for me to attend any meetings.
>
> I think there is not much point refactoring the code (Glimmer-CISM)  
> at this moment when we don't have an API yet.
>
> Regards
> magi
>
> -- 
> The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, registered in
> Scotland, with registration number SC005336.
>

*******************************************************************************
William H. Lipscomb					E-mail: lipscomb at lanl.gov
Los Alamos National Laboratory		Phone: (505) 667-0395
Group T-3, Mail Stop B216			Fax: (505) 665-5926
Los Alamos, NM 87545
*******************************************************************************






From evanskj at ornl.gov  Sun Sep  5 04:01:42 2010
From: evanskj at ornl.gov (Evans, Kate J.)
Date: Sat, 04 Sep 2010 22:01:42 -0400
Subject: [Glimmer-cism-devel] Fwd: dycore proposal
In-Reply-To: <35B052E7-F303-4544-BD38-B7B0006D1A34@lanl.gov>
Message-ID: <C8A447D7.3DB5%evanskj@ornl.gov>

Hi Bill et al.-

I think its a good idea too. Certainly someone from my group could be
involved with this. Possibly Jeff.

Kate 


On 9/1/10 12:27 PM, "Bill Lipscomb" <lipscomb at lanl.gov> wrote:

> 
> Hi Magnus,
> 
> Thanks for volunteering.  Since we're so widely distributed, I'm
> assuming that business would be conducted via email and the occasional
> teleconference, not face-to-face.
> 
> Regards,
> Bill
> 
> 
> On Sep 1, 2010, at 2:16 AM, Magnus Hagdorn wrote:
> 
>> William Lipscomb wrote:
>>> Hi all,
>>> I agree that it's worth taking some time to define and design the
>>> API infrastructure.  I wonder if it would make sense to form a
>>> development subgroup to think about this in detail.  This group
>>> might include representatives from the various ISICLES projects
>>> developing new dycores (e.g., Jed from SISIPHUS, Dan from ISICLES,
>>> Toby from U.Texas/Ymir) as well as the Glimmer-CISM steering
>>> committee (Magnus?) and the CESM community (Jesse or me?).  Others
>>> (e.g., from PISM) would of course be welcome.
>>> I'll start by asking:
>>> (1) Does anyone have strong feelings about whether this is or isn't
>>> a good idea?
>>> (2) Assuming it's a good idea, who would like to be part of the
>>> group?
>> 
>> Hi Bill,
>> I think this is a very good idea and should involve representatives
>> from other projects. I'd be happy to be the Glimmer-CISM
>> representative but should stress that I don't have any funding which
>> will make it difficult for me to attend any meetings.
>> 
>> I think there is not much point refactoring the code (Glimmer-CISM)
>> at this moment when we don't have an API yet.
>> 
>> Regards
>> magi
>> 
>> -- 
>> The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, registered in
>> Scotland, with registration number SC005336.
>> 
> 
> 
******************************************************************************>
*
> William H. Lipscomb     E-mail: lipscomb at lanl.gov
> Los Alamos National Laboratory  Phone: (505) 667-0395
> Group T-3, Mail Stop B216   Fax: (505) 665-5926
> Los Alamos, NM 87545
> 
******************************************************************************>
*
> 
> 
> 
> 
> _______________________________________________
> Glimmer-cism-devel mailing list
> Glimmer-cism-devel at lists.berlios.de
> https://lists.berlios.de/mailman/listinfo/glimmer-cism-devel



From sprice at lanl.gov  Wed Sep  8 21:53:11 2010
From: sprice at lanl.gov (Stephen Price)
Date: Wed, 08 Sep 2010 13:53:11 -0600
Subject: [Glimmer-cism-devel] tests dir vs. tests2
Message-ID: <4C87E9A7.8050707@lanl.gov>


Hi Sarah,

I saw your commit earlier today and it occurred to me that we should 
have told you earlier that the "tests2" dir under the LANL branch of the 
code was the more recent one. It is confusing and I think we should 
probably have only one tests dir.

I would suggest that we just do a replacement of the old "tests" dir 
with the current "tests2" dir (that is: svn rm tests; svn mv tests2 
tests; svn commit tests ... or something like that). Does anyone have 
objections to this? Are there other tests in the current "tests" dir 
that are not also in "tests2"? If so, can we just move them into 
"tests2" so that we only have one "tests" directory?

Another alternative would be to break the tests up between those that 
apply only to the SIA code and those that apply to the higher-order code.

Any comments?

thanks -

Steve


From Magnus.Hagdorn at ed.ac.uk  Wed Sep  8 23:17:00 2010
From: Magnus.Hagdorn at ed.ac.uk (Magnus Hagdorn)
Date: Wed, 08 Sep 2010 22:17:00 +0100
Subject: [Glimmer-cism-devel] tests dir vs. tests2
In-Reply-To: <4C87E9A7.8050707@lanl.gov>
References: <4C87E9A7.8050707@lanl.gov>
Message-ID: <1283980620.2334.2.camel@bacon.marsupium.org>

On Wed, 2010-09-08 at 13:53 -0600, Stephen Price wrote:
> Hi Sarah,
> 
> I saw your commit earlier today and it occurred to me that we should 
> have told you earlier that the "tests2" dir under the LANL branch of the 
> code was the more recent one. It is confusing and I think we should 
> probably have only one tests dir.
> 
> I would suggest that we just do a replacement of the old "tests" dir 
> with the current "tests2" dir (that is: svn rm tests; svn mv tests2 
> tests; svn commit tests ... or something like that). Does anyone have 
> objections to this? Are there other tests in the current "tests" dir 
> that are not also in "tests2"? If so, can we just move them into 
> "tests2" so that we only have one "tests" directory?
> 
> Another alternative would be to break the tests up between those that 
> apply only to the SIA code and those that apply to the higher-order code.
> 
> Any comments?
> 
Hi all,
what is the difference between tests and tests2? since tests2 is newer
you could presumably copy the new files into their correct location in
the tests directory. once everything is copied remove tests2. this way
history is maintained.

why is this done on the lanl branch? what is the plan to merge this into
trunk since the tests directory might have changed there, certainly the
infrastructure has so.

cheers
magi



From sarah.shannon at bristol.ac.uk  Thu Sep  9 12:06:26 2010
From: sarah.shannon at bristol.ac.uk (Sarah Shannon)
Date: Thu, 09 Sep 2010 11:06:26 +0100
Subject: [Glimmer-cism-devel] tests dir vs. tests2
In-Reply-To: <4C87E9A7.8050707@lanl.gov>
References: <4C87E9A7.8050707@lanl.gov>
Message-ID: <4C88B1A2.7000307@bristol.ac.uk>

Hi Steve,

Thanks for letting me know. I would have no problem with the replacement 
you suggest. It looks like there is a peterman test in "test" which is 
not in "test2". We might want to copy that to the new directory. 

Dividing the tests in SIA and HO tests would be a clear way to set up 
the directory.  I am setting up an automatic EISMINT-1 and hump test on 
the lanl trunk, to test the SIA and HO parts of the code. This means, 
Ill be checking in extra configuration files to the test directory, plus 
code to compare netCDF files and a test script. It could be a good time 
restructure the directory. Perhaps having subdirectories "sia"  "ho"   
"utils" might be useful.

Do people have opinions about this?

Cheers,

Sarah







Stephen Price wrote:
>
> Hi Sarah,
>
> I saw your commit earlier today and it occurred to me that we should 
> have told you earlier that the "tests2" dir under the LANL branch of 
> the code was the more recent one. It is confusing and I think we 
> should probably have only one tests dir.
>
> I would suggest that we just do a replacement of the old "tests" dir 
> with the current "tests2" dir (that is: svn rm tests; svn mv tests2 
> tests; svn commit tests ... or something like that). Does anyone have 
> objections to this? Are there other tests in the current "tests" dir 
> that are not also in "tests2"? If so, can we just move them into 
> "tests2" so that we only have one "tests" directory?
>
> Another alternative would be to break the tests up between those that 
> apply only to the SIA code and those that apply to the higher-order code.
>
> Any comments?
>
> thanks -
>
> Steve

-------------- next part --------------
A non-text attachment was scrubbed...
Name: sarah_shannon.vcf
Type: text/x-vcard
Size: 278 bytes
Desc: not available
URL: <https://lists.berlios.de/pipermail/glimmer-cism-devel/attachments/20100909/bee0c6d3/attachment.vcf>

From Magnus.Hagdorn at ed.ac.uk  Thu Sep  9 13:21:33 2010
From: Magnus.Hagdorn at ed.ac.uk (Magnus Hagdorn)
Date: Thu, 09 Sep 2010 12:21:33 +0100
Subject: [Glimmer-cism-devel] tests dir vs. tests2
In-Reply-To: <4C88B1A2.7000307@bristol.ac.uk>
References: <4C87E9A7.8050707@lanl.gov> <4C88B1A2.7000307@bristol.ac.uk>
Message-ID: <4C88C33D.5070407@ed.ac.uk>

Sarah Shannon wrote:
> Hi Steve,
> 
> Thanks for letting me know. I would have no problem with the replacement 
> you suggest. It looks like there is a peterman test in "test" which is 
> not in "test2". We might want to copy that to the new directory.
> Dividing the tests in SIA and HO tests would be a clear way to set up 
> the directory.  I am setting up an automatic EISMINT-1 and hump test on 
> the lanl trunk, to test the SIA and HO parts of the code. This means, 
> Ill be checking in extra configuration files to the test directory, plus 
> code to compare netCDF files and a test script. It could be a good time 
> restructure the directory. Perhaps having subdirectories "sia"  "ho"   
> "utils" might be useful.
> 
> Do people have opinions about this?
> 
> 

what about having them in the same directory, but using different names 
for the configuration and output files?
alternatively we could introduce a new level of directories and keep the 
names, e.g.
EISMINT-1/SIA
EISMINT-1/HO
etc
this would have the benefit, that it would be easy to disable a 
particular implementation test run.

Option 3 is to have
tests/SIA/EISMINT-1
           ....
tests/HO/EISMINT-1
          ....

in a way it doesn't matter so much as long as they are clearly 
separated. Maybe option 3 is the best since disabling a particular 
implementation is very straight forward.

So, on reflection I'd go for Option 3


Cheers
magi

-- 
The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, registered in
Scotland, with registration number SC005336.



From sarah.shannon at bristol.ac.uk  Thu Sep  9 13:32:17 2010
From: sarah.shannon at bristol.ac.uk (Sarah Shannon)
Date: Thu, 09 Sep 2010 12:32:17 +0100
Subject: [Glimmer-cism-devel] tests dir vs. tests2
In-Reply-To: <4C88C33D.5070407@ed.ac.uk>
References: <4C87E9A7.8050707@lanl.gov> <4C88B1A2.7000307@bristol.ac.uk>
	<4C88C33D.5070407@ed.ac.uk>
Message-ID: <4C88C5C1.2090009@bristol.ac.uk>

Hi Magnus,
Option 3 looks good to me, Cheers,
Sarah

Magnus Hagdorn wrote:
> Sarah Shannon wrote:
>> Hi Steve,
>>
>> Thanks for letting me know. I would have no problem with the 
>> replacement you suggest. It looks like there is a peterman test in 
>> "test" which is not in "test2". We might want to copy that to the new 
>> directory.
>> Dividing the tests in SIA and HO tests would be a clear way to set up 
>> the directory.  I am setting up an automatic EISMINT-1 and hump test 
>> on the lanl trunk, to test the SIA and HO parts of the code. This 
>> means, Ill be checking in extra configuration files to the test 
>> directory, plus code to compare netCDF files and a test script. It 
>> could be a good time restructure the directory. Perhaps having 
>> subdirectories "sia"  "ho"   "utils" might be useful.
>>
>> Do people have opinions about this?
>>
>>
>
> what about having them in the same directory, but using different 
> names for the configuration and output files?
> alternatively we could introduce a new level of directories and keep 
> the names, e.g.
> EISMINT-1/SIA
> EISMINT-1/HO
> etc
> this would have the benefit, that it would be easy to disable a 
> particular implementation test run.
>
> Option 3 is to have
> tests/SIA/EISMINT-1
>           ....
> tests/HO/EISMINT-1
>          ....
>
> in a way it doesn't matter so much as long as they are clearly 
> separated. Maybe option 3 is the best since disabling a particular 
> implementation is very straight forward.
>
> So, on reflection I'd go for Option 3
>
>
> Cheers
> magi
>

-------------- next part --------------
A non-text attachment was scrubbed...
Name: sarah_shannon.vcf
Type: text/x-vcard
Size: 278 bytes
Desc: not available
URL: <https://lists.berlios.de/pipermail/glimmer-cism-devel/attachments/20100909/a0601f13/attachment.vcf>

From a.j.payne at bristol.ac.uk  Mon Sep 13 16:06:20 2010
From: a.j.payne at bristol.ac.uk (Tony Payne)
Date: Mon, 13 Sep 2010 15:06:20 +0100
Subject: [Glimmer-cism-devel] Fwd: dycore proposal
In-Reply-To: <5922C744-09A5-4D50-A240-011931E45BD2@lanl.gov>
References: <689a26b23dbad64b1c5015802746b5f7@ices.utexas.edu>	<A37EB7A8-FB00-4236-9AD4-679E0B1919DC@lanl.gov>	<871va25l6p.fsf@59A2.org>
	<4C6A623E.2090300@swansea.ac.uk>	<20100817155318.GA22201@ices.utexas.edu>	<4C77C503.6020509@swansea.ac.uk>
	<87iq2wgn22.fsf@59A2.org>	<4C77D2A8.7000900@ed.ac.uk>
	<4C77DEA6.5000105@ed.ac.uk>	<4C77E0F7.2060100@bristol.ac.uk>	<1534452E-FAEF-42A4-A231-A21269BED7FD@lanl.gov>	<1282982358.3306.2.camel@bacon.marsupium.org>	<87bp8nezts.fsf@59A2.org>
	<4C7B6E55.6000801@ed.ac.uk>	<8739twtncm.fsf@59A2.org>
	<5922C744-09A5-4D50-A240-011931E45BD2@lanl.gov>
Message-ID: <4C8E2FDC.2070501@bristol.ac.uk>

hi

sorry for late contribution to this theme.

in answer to magnus' original questions: what is glimmer-cism?  i think 
it will remain a code that has a variety of climate forcing drivers and 
climate model couplers, it will also contain a range of ice flow and 
mass balance routines including SIA and various flavours of higher order 
code.  at some point it may well include parallelism both in matrix 
inversion and more generally (domain decomposition).  unless very 
considerable effort is made, it seems likely to continue to use a fixed, 
staggered horizontal grid.  this configuration is fine for many 
applications but has very serious shortcomings for key problems such as 
grounding line migration.  we could rewrite glimmer-cism entirely to be 
based on the type of grid more needed for these problems however this 
would more or less mean starting from scratch and would be repeating 
much of the work that has been done elsewhere in developing generic 
solvers on advanced (ie non fixed, non quadrilateral) meshes.  the 
dycore work is therefore a mean of allowing glimmer-cism access to these 
more advanced solvers, which can be offered an alternative to the 
standard fixed-grid dynamic calculations.  a typical application could 
see glimmer-cism doing the climate coupling/forcing and mass balance 
calculations (also isostasy), and passing the necessary geometry and 
mass fluxes field over to the new dycore to do the ice 
flow-temperature-thickness calculations.

i agree with bill that it would make sense to define the interface that 
more advanced dycores will need to use; and echo dan's point that the 
job of regridding on to the mesh that glimmer-cism provides should be 
the job of the dycore and not place any additional burden on 
glimmer-cism.  i would urge that this interface is defined to be as 
simple as possible.

all the best

tony



On 30/08/2010 21:14, William Lipscomb wrote:
>
> Hi all,
>
> I agree that it's worth taking some time to define and design the API 
> infrastructure.  I wonder if it would make sense to form a development 
> subgroup to think about this in detail.  This group might include 
> representatives from the various ISICLES projects developing new 
> dycores (e.g., Jed from SISIPHUS, Dan from ISICLES, Toby from 
> U.Texas/Ymir) as well as the Glimmer-CISM steering committee (Magnus?) 
> and the CESM community (Jesse or me?).  Others (e.g., from PISM) would 
> of course be welcome.
>
> I'll start by asking:
> (1) Does anyone have strong feelings about whether this is or isn't a 
> good idea?
> (2) Assuming it's a good idea, who would like to be part of the group?
>
> Regards,
>
> Bill
>
>
>
>
> On Aug 30, 2010, at 4:18 AM, Jed Brown wrote:
>
>> On Mon, 30 Aug 2010 09:39:49 +0100, Magnus Hagdorn 
>> <Magnus.Hagdorn at ed.ac.uk> wrote:
>>> This is an entirely different beast.
>>
>> Agreed, just wanted to put it out there because a change like this won't
>> happen overnight and won't happen if there isn't some consensus that
>> it's the right direction to be headed.
>>
>>> However, if this is what we want to achieve then we should really
>>> spend some time on defining and designing the infrastructure and API
>>> first. Once we have it we can port glimmer to it. I don't think there
>>> is much point trying to come up with an API that fits the current
>>> structure of glimmer.
>>
>> I would also suggest trying to avoid having too many CCSM coupler
>> idiosyncrasies show up in the API.
>>
>> Other ISICLES projects, the PISM team, and possibly others should be
>> prepared to weight in on the API.  I don't know if everyone is on this
>> list, or if you want to have the discussion on this list.
>>
>> Jed
>> _______________________________________________
>> Glimmer-cism-devel mailing list
>> Glimmer-cism-devel at lists.berlios.de
>> https://lists.berlios.de/mailman/listinfo/glimmer-cism-devel
>
> ******************************************************************************* 
>
> William H. Lipscomb                    E-mail: lipscomb at lanl.gov
> Los Alamos National Laboratory        Phone: (505) 667-0395
> Group T-3, Mail Stop B216            Fax: (505) 665-5926
> Los Alamos, NM 87545
> ******************************************************************************* 
>
>
>
>
>
> _______________________________________________
> Glimmer-cism-devel mailing list
> Glimmer-cism-devel at lists.berlios.de
> https://lists.berlios.de/mailman/listinfo/glimmer-cism-devel

-- 
------------------------<>---------------------------
Tony Payne
School of Geographical Sciences,
University of Bristol,
Bristol BS8 1SS, UK.
Telephone:      +117 331 4156
Fax:            +117 928 7878
Email:          A.J.Payne at bristol.ac.uk
------------------------<>---------------------------



From a.j.payne at bristol.ac.uk  Mon Sep 13 16:55:11 2010
From: a.j.payne at bristol.ac.uk (Tony Payne)
Date: Mon, 13 Sep 2010 15:55:11 +0100
Subject: [Glimmer-cism-devel] tests dir vs. tests2
In-Reply-To: <4C88C5C1.2090009@bristol.ac.uk>
References: <4C87E9A7.8050707@lanl.gov>
	<4C88B1A2.7000307@bristol.ac.uk>	<4C88C33D.5070407@ed.ac.uk>
	<4C88C5C1.2090009@bristol.ac.uk>
Message-ID: <4C8E3B4F.7010006@bristol.ac.uk>

me too

On 09/09/2010 12:32, Sarah Shannon wrote:
> Hi Magnus,
> Option 3 looks good to me, Cheers,
> Sarah
>
> Magnus Hagdorn wrote:
>> Sarah Shannon wrote:
>>> Hi Steve,
>>>
>>> Thanks for letting me know. I would have no problem with the 
>>> replacement you suggest. It looks like there is a peterman test in 
>>> "test" which is not in "test2". We might want to copy that to the 
>>> new directory.
>>> Dividing the tests in SIA and HO tests would be a clear way to set 
>>> up the directory.  I am setting up an automatic EISMINT-1 and hump 
>>> test on the lanl trunk, to test the SIA and HO parts of the code. 
>>> This means, Ill be checking in extra configuration files to the test 
>>> directory, plus code to compare netCDF files and a test script. It 
>>> could be a good time restructure the directory. Perhaps having 
>>> subdirectories "sia"  "ho"   "utils" might be useful.
>>>
>>> Do people have opinions about this?
>>>
>>>
>>
>> what about having them in the same directory, but using different 
>> names for the configuration and output files?
>> alternatively we could introduce a new level of directories and keep 
>> the names, e.g.
>> EISMINT-1/SIA
>> EISMINT-1/HO
>> etc
>> this would have the benefit, that it would be easy to disable a 
>> particular implementation test run.
>>
>> Option 3 is to have
>> tests/SIA/EISMINT-1
>>           ....
>> tests/HO/EISMINT-1
>>          ....
>>
>> in a way it doesn't matter so much as long as they are clearly 
>> separated. Maybe option 3 is the best since disabling a particular 
>> implementation is very straight forward.
>>
>> So, on reflection I'd go for Option 3
>>
>>
>> Cheers
>> magi
>>
>
>
> _______________________________________________
> Glimmer-cism-devel mailing list
> Glimmer-cism-devel at lists.berlios.de
> https://lists.berlios.de/mailman/listinfo/glimmer-cism-devel
>    

-- 
------------------------<>---------------------------
Tony Payne
School of Geographical Sciences,
University of Bristol,
Bristol BS8 1SS, UK.
Telephone:      +117 331 4156
Fax:            +117 928 7878
Email:          A.J.Payne at bristol.ac.uk
------------------------<>---------------------------

-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://lists.berlios.de/pipermail/glimmer-cism-devel/attachments/20100913/c1f2aec8/attachment.html>

From I.C.Rutt at swansea.ac.uk  Mon Sep 20 11:38:23 2010
From: I.C.Rutt at swansea.ac.uk (Ian Rutt)
Date: Mon, 20 Sep 2010 10:38:23 +0100
Subject: [Glimmer-cism-devel] Fwd: dycore proposal
In-Reply-To: <4C7E0BDD.2030303@ed.ac.uk>
References: <689a26b23dbad64b1c5015802746b5f7@ices.utexas.edu>
	<A37EB7A8-FB00-4236-9AD4-679E0B1919DC@lanl.gov>
	<871va25l6p.fsf@59A2.org> <4C6A623E.2090300@swansea.ac.uk>
	<20100817155318.GA22201@ices.utexas.edu>
	<4C77C503.6020509@swansea.ac.uk> <87iq2wgn22.fsf@59A2.org>
	<4C77D2A8.7000900@ed.ac.uk> <4C77DEA6.5000105@ed.ac.uk>
	<4C77E0F7.2060100@bristol.ac.uk>
	<1534452E-FAEF-42A4-A231-A21269BED7FD@lanl.gov>
	<1282982358.3306.2.camel@bacon.marsupium.org>
	<87bp8nezts.fsf@59A2.org> <4C7B6E55.6000801@ed.ac.uk>
	<8739twtncm.fsf@59A2.org>
	<5922C744-09A5-4D50-A240-011931E45BD2@lanl.gov>
	<4C7E0BDD.2030303@ed.ac.uk>
Message-ID: <9D5B4B1D-87D3-40F4-85B8-0E51B60C31F3@swansea.ac.uk>


Hi All,

Sorry for email absence over the last few weeks - I was away in  
Helsinki for most of August, and am just recovering from moving house.

I think the API discussion group is a good idea, and I think it would  
be great if Magnus can be involved from the steering committee.

I also think that anyone else who has a positive contribution to make  
should take part - this needs to be an open, transparent process, and  
I hope that even though we will identify particular people to be  
involved, the discussions should be made open to everyone.

All the best,

Ian

Dr Ian Rutt
School of the Environment and Society
Swansea University
Singleton Park
Swansea
SA2 8PP
Tel. (01792) 602685
i.c.rutt at swansea.ac.uk

On 1 Sep 2010, at 09:16, Magnus Hagdorn wrote:

> William Lipscomb wrote:
>> Hi all,
>> I agree that it's worth taking some time to define and design the  
>> API infrastructure.  I wonder if it would make sense to form a  
>> development subgroup to think about this in detail.  This group  
>> might include representatives from the various ISICLES projects  
>> developing new dycores (e.g., Jed from SISIPHUS, Dan from ISICLES,  
>> Toby from U.Texas/Ymir) as well as the Glimmer-CISM steering  
>> committee (Magnus?) and the CESM community (Jesse or me?).  Others  
>> (e.g., from PISM) would of course be welcome.
>> I'll start by asking:
>> (1) Does anyone have strong feelings about whether this is or isn't  
>> a good idea?
>> (2) Assuming it's a good idea, who would like to be part of the  
>> group?
>
> Hi Bill,
> I think this is a very good idea and should involve representatives  
> from other projects. I'd be happy to be the Glimmer-CISM  
> representative but should stress that I don't have any funding which  
> will make it difficult for me to attend any meetings.
>
> I think there is not much point refactoring the code (Glimmer-CISM)  
> at this moment when we don't have an API yet.
>
> Regards
> magi
>
> -- 
> The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, registered in
> Scotland, with registration number SC005336.
>
> _______________________________________________
> Glimmer-cism-devel mailing list
> Glimmer-cism-devel at lists.berlios.de
> https://lists.berlios.de/mailman/listinfo/glimmer-cism-devel

-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://lists.berlios.de/pipermail/glimmer-cism-devel/attachments/20100920/9f395f74/attachment.html>

From sprice at lanl.gov  Tue Sep 21 04:30:28 2010
From: sprice at lanl.gov (Stephen Price)
Date: Mon, 20 Sep 2010 20:30:28 -0600
Subject: [Glimmer-cism-devel] include .inc files
Message-ID: <4C9818C4.3040502@lanl.gov>


Hi all,

I'm looking for a quick explanation on something.

At the start of most .F90 files there is something like ...

#include "glide_nan.inc"
#include "glide_mask.inc"

... for example, at the head of glide_velo_higher.F90.

I recently made some seemingly trivial changes to that file so that some 
options could be specified at run time rather than being hardwired into 
the code. When I did this, I got a build error that I have not seen before:

*** No rule to make target `config.inc', needed by 
`glide_velo_higher.o'.  Stop.

I fixed this by adding:

#include "config.inc"

to the head of glide_velo_higher.F90. This also required that I comment 
out, or remove, an existing line there:

#ifdef HAVE_CONFIG_H #include "config.inc" #endif

Can someone provide a simple explanation? I've made similar changes to 
this and other parts of the code before but have never seen this error 
come up.

thanks -

Steve



From Magnus.Hagdorn at ed.ac.uk  Tue Sep 21 09:44:37 2010
From: Magnus.Hagdorn at ed.ac.uk (Magnus Hagdorn)
Date: Tue, 21 Sep 2010 08:44:37 +0100
Subject: [Glimmer-cism-devel] include .inc files
In-Reply-To: <4C9818C4.3040502@lanl.gov>
References: <4C9818C4.3040502@lanl.gov>
Message-ID: <1285055077.2482.3.camel@bacon.marsupium.org>

On Mon, 2010-09-20 at 20:30 -0600, Stephen Price wrote:
> Hi all,
> 
> I'm looking for a quick explanation on something.
> 
> At the start of most .F90 files there is something like ...
> 
> #include "glide_nan.inc"
> #include "glide_mask.inc"
> 
> ... for example, at the head of glide_velo_higher.F90.
> 
> I recently made some seemingly trivial changes to that file so that some 
> options could be specified at run time rather than being hardwired into 
> the code. When I did this, I got a build error that I have not seen before:
> 
> *** No rule to make target `config.inc', needed by 
> `glide_velo_higher.o'.  Stop.
> 
> I fixed this by adding:
> 
> #include "config.inc"
> 
> to the head of glide_velo_higher.F90. This also required that I comment 
> out, or remove, an existing line there:
> 
> #ifdef HAVE_CONFIG_H #include "config.inc" #endif
> 
> Can someone provide a simple explanation? I've made similar changes to 
> this and other parts of the code before but have never seen this error 
> come up.
> 


Hi Steve,
how did you run configure? the macro HAVE_CONFIG should be defined after
you have run configure.  When you run make what options are passed to
the compiler? You should see something like -DHAVE_CONFIG.

Is there a bug in glide_nan.inc or glide_mask.inc? These should also
come after including config.inc.

No answer - but some suggestions
magi



From Magnus.Hagdorn at ed.ac.uk  Tue Sep 21 16:57:01 2010
From: Magnus.Hagdorn at ed.ac.uk (Magnus Hagdorn)
Date: Tue, 21 Sep 2010 15:57:01 +0100
Subject: [Glimmer-cism-devel] include .inc files
In-Reply-To: <4C98C6AA.3040606@lanl.gov>
References: <4C9818C4.3040502@lanl.gov>
	<1285055077.2482.3.camel@bacon.marsupium.org>
	<4C98C6AA.3040606@lanl.gov>
Message-ID: <1285081021.7783.1.camel@bacon.marsupium.org>

On Tue, 2010-09-21 at 08:52 -0600, Stephen Price wrote:

> Thanks. For now, I just removed the
> 
> #ifdef HAVE_CONFIG_H #include "config.inc" #endif
> 
> line from the start of the file and added '#include config.inc', and it 
> seems to work. But I'd like to make sure I'm not messing something else 
> by doing that.
> 
> Note that in the original file, the lines were as follows:
> 
> #ifdef HAVE_CONFIG_H #include "config.inc" #endif

I am not sure if this is correct, I think it should be
#ifdef HAVE_CONFIG_H
#include....
#endif

> #include "glide_nan.inc"
> #include "glide_mask.inc"
> 
> I notice you just made a commit. Is that relevant here?
> 

maybe, that fixed a problem when compiling out of source tree.

magi




From Magnus.Hagdorn at ed.ac.uk  Tue Sep 21 18:01:40 2010
From: Magnus.Hagdorn at ed.ac.uk (Magnus Hagdorn)
Date: Tue, 21 Sep 2010 17:01:40 +0100
Subject: [Glimmer-cism-devel] pardiso
Message-ID: <1285084900.7783.4.camel@bacon.marsupium.org>

Hi all,
I am having a look at the HO branch. Are there any instructions on how
to link against pardiso?
Cheers
magi




From I.C.Rutt at swansea.ac.uk  Tue Sep 21 18:11:07 2010
From: I.C.Rutt at swansea.ac.uk (Ian Rutt)
Date: Tue, 21 Sep 2010 17:11:07 +0100
Subject: [Glimmer-cism-devel] glint_example
In-Reply-To: <1872F973-3213-4B62-8ED6-664E3F1064A5@lanl.gov>
References: <1872F973-3213-4B62-8ED6-664E3F1064A5@lanl.gov>
Message-ID: <4C98D91B.1030907@swansea.ac.uk>


Hi Bill (cc. developer list),

Sorry for not replying to this back in July when you sent it. I'm just 
catching up now...

I've tried this with the latest glimmer-cism2/trunk checkout, but can't 
reproduce the problem, I'm afraid. Are you still having difficulties? 
Does anyone else have this problem?

Cheers,

Ian

Dr Ian Rutt
School of the Environment and Society
Swansea University
Singleton Park
Swansea
SA2 8PP
Tel. (01792) 602685
i.c.rutt at swansea.ac.uk


William Lipscomb wrote:
> 
> Hi Ian and Magnus,
> 
> I found another problem that I wanted to ask you about before I post to 
> the list.  When I run the standard glint_example test problem with 
> Paterson/Budd variable flow factor (as opposed to constant flow factor), 
> the code crashes in year 3.  This happens with either the gc2 trunk code 
> or the (fixed) gc-lanl parallel code when I use the nonlinear thickness 
> solver.  Is this a known problem?  Should I worry about it, or should I 
> just assume it's an issue with the initial or forcing datasets?
> 
> Thanks,
> 
> Bill
> 
> 
> ******************************************************************************* 
> 
> William H. Lipscomb                    E-mail: lipscomb at lanl.gov
> Los Alamos National Laboratory        Phone: (505) 667-0395
> Group T-3, Mail Stop B216            Fax: (505) 665-5926
> Los Alamos, NM 87545
> ******************************************************************************* 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 


From I.C.Rutt at swansea.ac.uk  Tue Sep 21 18:25:45 2010
From: I.C.Rutt at swansea.ac.uk (Ian Rutt)
Date: Tue, 21 Sep 2010 17:25:45 +0100
Subject: [Glimmer-cism-devel] Paper of interest to climate coupling people
Message-ID: <4C98DC89.1040607@swansea.ac.uk>


Hi All,

For those who work on coupling Glimmer-CISM to climate forcing (using 
GLINT, or other couplers), you might find this paper from GMD of interest:

http://www.geosci-model-dev.net/3/13/2010/gmd-3-13-2010.html

Apologies for my slowness in sending it round - ignore if you've already 
read it!

All the best,

Ian

-- 
Dr Ian Rutt
School of the Environment and Society
Swansea University
Singleton Park
Swansea
SA2 8PP
Tel. (01792) 602685
i.c.rutt at swansea.ac.uk


From jed at 59A2.org  Tue Sep 21 21:14:34 2010
From: jed at 59A2.org (Jed Brown)
Date: Tue, 21 Sep 2010 21:14:34 +0200
Subject: [Glimmer-cism-devel] Paper of interest to climate coupling
	people
In-Reply-To: <4C98DC89.1040607@swansea.ac.uk>
References: <4C98DC89.1040607@swansea.ac.uk>
Message-ID: <AANLkTin3tftu6ytx4njJ93vL-_70gw9_n1tOmkVRyBUp@mail.gmail.com>

On Tue, Sep 21, 2010 at 18:25, Ian Rutt <I.C.Rutt at swansea.ac.uk> wrote:
> For those who work on coupling Glimmer-CISM to climate forcing (using GLINT,
> or other couplers), you might find this paper from GMD of interest:
>
> http://www.geosci-model-dev.net/3/13/2010/gmd-3-13-2010.html

Thanks.  Note that this does not implement an exactly conservative
scheme.  See Table 4 which, after correcting for a total-area bias,
still shows errors typically larger than 10%.  This may be acceptable
for short time periods, but not for the long-term.

Also note that all the projections are readily available in the open
source library GDAL (http://gdal.org) which has bindings to many
languages and is much more modern, supported, and complete than Proj4
which some people are still using.

Jed


From Magnus.Hagdorn at ed.ac.uk  Tue Sep 28 10:15:24 2010
From: Magnus.Hagdorn at ed.ac.uk (Magnus Hagdorn)
Date: Tue, 28 Sep 2010 09:15:24 +0100
Subject: [Glimmer-cism-devel] glimmer-cism test suite
Message-ID: <4CA1A41C.7050100@ed.ac.uk>

Hi Sarah,
what is the current status of the test suite? The steering committee 
(that sounds very offical...) would like to integrate the test suite 
before the stable version 1.6 is released. In order to do so we should 
merge your changes into trunk. I am quite happy to do the merge if you 
want me to and if you are ready. Once the test suite is fully integrated 
into trunk we can merge it into the 1.6 branch and use it to test the 
version 1.6.

Thanks for tackling this much needed unglamorous feature.

Cheers
magi



-- 
The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, registered in
Scotland, with registration number SC005336.



From sarah.shannon at bristol.ac.uk  Tue Sep 28 12:04:06 2010
From: sarah.shannon at bristol.ac.uk (Sarah Shannon)
Date: Tue, 28 Sep 2010 11:04:06 +0100
Subject: [Glimmer-cism-devel] glimmer-cism test suite
Message-ID: <4CA1BD96.8070307@bristol.ac.uk>

Hi Magnus,

That's great the test suite will eventually be merged into the trunk. I 
was at the Karthaus summer school for the last 2 weeks so I didn't get 
time to work on it since then.

Here is the current status: I am setting up tests for ho-other, 
EISMINT-1 and ISMIP-HOM. I changed the layout of the test directory as 
suggested in the last email. I modified configure to compile the netCDF 
tool and added a rule in Makefile.am to call the script.

I still have to check in the GS files and the final version of the test 
script. I was thinking of putting the GS files in the test suite. I 
should have this finalised by the end of the week and Ill email you 
then. It would be helpful if you could do the merging - if you didn't 
mind that -as I haven't merged code before.

Ed Bueler was at Karthaus and he mentioned that you have set up 
analytical tests for glimmer in the past. Are these in the repository 
somewhere and do you think they would be useful to add to the test suite?

Cheers,

Sarah
-------------- next part --------------
A non-text attachment was scrubbed...
Name: sarah_shannon.vcf
Type: text/x-vcard
Size: 278 bytes
Desc: not available
URL: <https://lists.berlios.de/pipermail/glimmer-cism-devel/attachments/20100928/0f9ca784/attachment.vcf>

From Magnus.Hagdorn at ed.ac.uk  Tue Sep 28 13:07:49 2010
From: Magnus.Hagdorn at ed.ac.uk (Magnus Hagdorn)
Date: Tue, 28 Sep 2010 12:07:49 +0100
Subject: [Glimmer-cism-devel] glimmer-cism test suite
In-Reply-To: <4CA1BD96.8070307@bristol.ac.uk>
References: <4CA1BD96.8070307@bristol.ac.uk>
Message-ID: <4CA1CC85.5060804@ed.ac.uk>

Sarah Shannon wrote:
> Hi Magnus,
> 
> That's great the test suite will eventually be merged into the trunk. I 
> was at the Karthaus summer school for the last 2 weeks so I didn't get 
> time to work on it since then.
> 
> Here is the current status: I am setting up tests for ho-other, 
> EISMINT-1 and ISMIP-HOM. I changed the layout of the test directory as 
> suggested in the last email. I modified configure to compile the netCDF 
> tool and added a rule in Makefile.am to call the script.
> 
> I still have to check in the GS files and the final version of the test 
> script. I was thinking of putting the GS files in the test suite. I 
> should have this finalised by the end of the week and Ill email you 
> then. It would be helpful if you could do the merging - if you didn't 
> mind that -as I haven't merged code before.
> 
> Ed Bueler was at Karthaus and he mentioned that you have set up 
> analytical tests for glimmer in the past. Are these in the repository 
> somewhere and do you think they would be useful to add to the test suite?
> 
> 
Hi Sarah,
Ed Bueler's isothermal tests are in the tests directory. The main thing 
at this stage is to get the framework sorted out. We can then add more 
tests as we go along. Let me know when you are ready and we can have a 
look/discuss how we go forward.
Cheers
magi

-- 
The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, registered in
Scotland, with registration number SC005336.



From Magnus.Hagdorn at ed.ac.uk  Wed Sep 29 15:55:33 2010
From: Magnus.Hagdorn at ed.ac.uk (Magnus Hagdorn)
Date: Wed, 29 Sep 2010 14:55:33 +0100
Subject: [Glimmer-cism-devel] integrating the higher order physics model
	into Glimmer-CISM
Message-ID: <4CA34555.8080106@ed.ac.uk>

Hi all,
during the last Glimmer-CISM steering committee meeting, Bill suggested 
to make the higher order physics model optional and distinct once it has 
been merged into glimmer-cism trunk.

We are not ready for the new API/separation into multiple dynamical 
cores yet so we need to come up with an interim solution. This email 
outlines a number of options.

Adding another switch to configure to either enable or disable higher 
order physics is straight forward. We can then use conditionals in the 
automake files to decide what is to be compiled.

I think there are 3 options:
1. add the code to the libglide directory and define a group of
    source files making up the HO model which gets added or not to
    the libglide_SOURCES
2. create two subdirectories under libglide one for the shallow ice
    code and one for the higher order code. Bundle compiled object files
    into helper libraries which will be combined to form libglide.
3. keep libglide as it is and move the higher order code to a
    subdirectory in the extensions directory. Handle the HO code
    like any of the other existing extensions.

Personally, I don't like option 2 because it suggests that the SIA and 
HO code are equivalent when in fact the HO code requires the SIA code. 
I'd be happy with Option 1 although it might lead to some confusion as 
to where code belongs; well, it's somewhat more messy. I think Option 3 
would be ideal because the HO model is an optional add-on which depends 
on basic glimmer-cism. You might argue that the HO model ends up in a 
less prominent place than it deserves, but I don't think so.

What do you think?

Cheers
magi
-- 
The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, registered in
Scotland, with registration number SC005336.



From a.j.payne at bristol.ac.uk  Wed Sep 29 20:13:13 2010
From: a.j.payne at bristol.ac.uk (Tony Payne)
Date: Wed, 29 Sep 2010 19:13:13 +0100
Subject: [Glimmer-cism-devel] integrating the higher order physics model
 into Glimmer-CISM
In-Reply-To: <4CA34555.8080106@ed.ac.uk>
References: <4CA34555.8080106@ed.ac.uk>
Message-ID: <4CA381B9.706@bristol.ac.uk>

hi

i do not think it is true to say that the HO code requires the SIA 
code.  best to think of the 3 key functions that the dynamic core has

temperature (currently incl vertical vel)
thickness
horiz velocity

in the SIA thickness and vel are sometimes solved together in the ice 
sheet eqn.  the HO code MUST (or at least is very likely to) solve them 
separately.  it may well be that the HO code will use the temperature 
solver (there will be minor differences in the dissipation term).  a 
further complication, some is flavours of HO will provide vertical and 
others not, so perhaps best to bundle vertical vel in with the horiz vel 
code.  i was thinking that which vel solver is called for a particular 
region will depend on some field of  flags (slow flow, stream, shelf 
etc) so that SIA (where horiz vel is found separately from thickness 
evol), L1L2 and PP could all be potentially called.  perhaps the real 
difference is between an option that solves the ice sheet eqn and one 
that solves thickness and vel separately (be it with SIA, L1L2 or PP).

the other functions of glimmer (isostasy, climate, SMB etc) will clearly 
need to available to both SIA and HO codes.  there are issues about 
ancillary functions needed to find basal traction coeffs etc which may 
depend on which flow model is being used.

i think that the HO code will fairly soon become the default because the 
range of probs that can be done with SIA is fairly limited (assuming 
that a fast enough HO version can be made).  in which case making it an 
extension seems a bit obtuse.  if we have SIA/ice sheet eqn as the 
default we are essentially presenting a model that is 20 years (well 15) 
old, which may not be good PR.  i am not certain that we can tackle this 
separately from the dycore issue in that whatever solution we choose 
here should also work for the external dycores (and vice versa).


all the best

tony

On 29/09/2010 14:55, Magnus Hagdorn wrote:
> Hi all,
> during the last Glimmer-CISM steering committee meeting, Bill 
> suggested to make the higher order physics model optional and distinct 
> once it has been merged into glimmer-cism trunk.
>
> We are not ready for the new API/separation into multiple dynamical 
> cores yet so we need to come up with an interim solution. This email 
> outlines a number of options.
>
> Adding another switch to configure to either enable or disable higher 
> order physics is straight forward. We can then use conditionals in the 
> automake files to decide what is to be compiled.
>
> I think there are 3 options:
> 1. add the code to the libglide directory and define a group of
>    source files making up the HO model which gets added or not to
>    the libglide_SOURCES
> 2. create two subdirectories under libglide one for the shallow ice
>    code and one for the higher order code. Bundle compiled object files
>    into helper libraries which will be combined to form libglide.
> 3. keep libglide as it is and move the higher order code to a
>    subdirectory in the extensions directory. Handle the HO code
>    like any of the other existing extensions.
>
> Personally, I don't like option 2 because it suggests that the SIA and 
> HO code are equivalent when in fact the HO code requires the SIA code. 
> I'd be happy with Option 1 although it might lead to some confusion as 
> to where code belongs; well, it's somewhat more messy. I think Option 
> 3 would be ideal because the HO model is an optional add-on which 
> depends on basic glimmer-cism. You might argue that the HO model ends 
> up in a less prominent place than it deserves, but I don't think so.
>
> What do you think?
>
> Cheers
> magi

-- 
------------------------<>---------------------------
Tony Payne
School of Geographical Sciences,
University of Bristol,
Bristol BS8 1SS, UK.
Telephone:      +117 331 4156
Fax:            +117 928 7878
Email:          A.J.Payne at bristol.ac.uk
------------------------<>---------------------------



From Magnus.Hagdorn at ed.ac.uk  Thu Sep 30 13:35:20 2010
From: Magnus.Hagdorn at ed.ac.uk (Magnus Hagdorn)
Date: Thu, 30 Sep 2010 12:35:20 +0100
Subject: [Glimmer-cism-devel] integrating the higher order physics model
 into Glimmer-CISM
In-Reply-To: <4CA381B9.706@bristol.ac.uk>
References: <4CA34555.8080106@ed.ac.uk> <4CA381B9.706@bristol.ac.uk>
Message-ID: <4CA475F8.8040007@ed.ac.uk>

Tony Payne wrote:
> i think that the HO code will fairly soon become the default because the 
> range of probs that can be done with SIA is fairly limited (assuming 
> that a fast enough HO version can be made).  in which case making it an 
> extension seems a bit obtuse.  if we have SIA/ice sheet eqn as the 
> default we are essentially presenting a model that is 20 years (well 15) 
> old, which may not be good PR.  i am not certain that we can tackle this 
> separately from the dycore issue in that whatever solution we choose 
> here should also work for the external dycores (and vice versa).
> 
> 

yes, I am sure the HO code will become the default. at the moment it is 
more a pragmatic question of where to put it before the refactoring of 
the code, given that we plan to rearrange most things in the not too 
distant future. my understanding of the HO code as it is at the moment, 
is that it requires the existing SIA code to be compiled as well. If 
that was the case then the HO code would be an add-on.

I would expect the code to move somewhere else once we are tackling the 
refactoring and it would become a real alternative to the SIA code.

magnus


-- 
The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, registered in
Scotland, with registration number SC005336.



